Add Bisecting rust compiler post (#479)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/2019-12-18-bisecting-rust-compiler.md

---
layout: post
title: "Bisecting Rust Compiler Regressions with cargo-bisect-rustc"
author: Santiago Pastorino
team: the compiler team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler>
---

Let's say that you've just updated the Rust compiler version and have
tried to compile your application and see a failure that wasn't there
before. That's likely due to a regression in the compiler.  We've just
released
[`cargo-bisect-rustc`](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo-bisect-rustc),
this tool makes it super easy to find exactly when behavior has

> regressed in rustc. It automatically downloads rustc artifacts and tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regressed in rustc.

cargo-bisect-rustc automatically downloads rustc artifacts and tests
```

them against a project you provide until it finds the regression. At
minimum, it will identify the nightly release which triggered the
regression; but if the regression occurred in the last 90 days, it will
even figure out the exact PR, which is often very useful in helping us

> fix the problem. It was created originally by Mark Rousskov and I was

Reviewer: I would make a new paragraph here, but also this sentence and the one after seem to say the same things.

Please give the steps for how to build your repository (platform, system dependencies, etc.)
## Error

<details><summary>COLLAPSIBLE ERROR STACKTRACE</summary>
<p>

```bash
Paste the error the compiler is giving
```

</p></details>

````

This tells us that the regression started with
`0bbab7d99dde8620604fb265706dc8bff20345a7` and you can look at the git
log to find the PR. Here,
[#64470](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64470).

## Call for action: try the tool

Please, give this tool a try and if you find yourself updating your
application and it stops building, it's likely that you're hitting a
regression. As you can see at the end of the execution of the tool, if a
regression is found the tool gives you a report that you can paste on a
github issue on the [Rust repo](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust).

## Call for action: get involved in the development of cargo-bisect-rustc

There are also a lot of things to improve in the tool and a lot of bugs
to fix. There are a bunch of reported issues that are easy to fix,
[check them
out](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo-bisect-rustc/issues).  You can
also, reach us out. You can find me and the rest of the compiler

> contributors and members in [Zulip](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/).

Reviewer: Should we make a dedicated stream? Maybe `#t-compiler/cargo-bisect-rustc`?

---
layout: post
title: "Bisecting Rust Compiler Regressions with cargo-bisect-rustc"
author: Santiago Pastorino
team: the compiler team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler>
---

Let's say that you've just updated the Rust compiler version and have
tried to compile your application and see a failure that wasn't there
before. That's likely due to a regression in the compiler.  We've just
released
[`cargo-bisect-rustc`](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo-bisect-rustc),
this tool makes it super easy to find exactly when behavior has
regressed in rustc.

> cargo-bisect-rustc automatically downloads rustc artifacts and tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cargo-bisect-rustc` automatically downloads rustc artifacts and tests
```

```sh
cargo install cargo-bisect-rustc
```

## Finding a regression

We are going to use [this "old" reported rustc
regression](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/64945) as an
example:

Our application consist only of this file:

```rust
pub struct Slice<'a, T>(&'a [T]);

impl<'a, T: 'a> Slice<'a, T> {
    pub const EMPTY: Self = Slice ({
        let v: &[T] = &[];
        v
    });
}

fn main() {
    let s = Slice(&[1, 2]);
    assert!(s.0 != Slice::EMPTY.0);
}
```

Then we run `cargo bisect-rustc --end=2019-10-01`.

We need to provide the end point for this particular example because
that's an old regression already fixed on the latests nightlies. If you
don't provide an ending point it assumes that the end point is today's
nightly or your currently installed nightly. If you don't provide a
start point as we're doing it tries to find one by regressing in time.
If you know if a failing starting point it would be faster if you just
provide that one.

By default it will run `cargo build` in the project and check whether or
not it fails. After finding a nightly that has regressed it is going to
automatically search for the commit that introduced the regression.

> Let's see the tool in action ...

Reviewer: maybe add a note somewhere indicating that it prints out a report you can copy and paste into a bug report?
